# CureGenie

## Inspiration
Physical exercise and a nutritious diet are cornerstones of having good health. Regular physical activity can mitigate the risk of heart disease, cancer, dementia, and diabetes. A balanced diet supplies our bodies with the necessary nutrients to function optimally and build resilience against disease.
Despite understanding the critical nature of these habits, many of us struggle to find the time to craft a personalized, detailed schedule that matches our unique needs and goals. This is where CureGenie steps in.
## What it does
CureGenie is your personalized diet and exercise planner, designed to meet you where you are. With the information from your blood results and personal health goals, it crafts a comprehensive lifestyle schedule, detailing optimal meal ingredients and workouts. But CureGenie isn't just a planner, it's an integrated part of your day. It immediately schedules your meals and workouts into your Google Calendar using MindsDB, ensuring your healthy habits are never overlooked amidst the hustle and bustle of daily life.
Not satisfied with the proposed schedule? No problem! Simply input a new prompt, and CureGenie will whip up a fresh plan, ensuring you're always in control of your health journey.
## How we built it
GPT-4’s state-of-the-art performance powers our planning engine, and MindsDB allows us to sync seamlessly with users' Google Calendars, turning their plans into actions. Additionally, with the powers of Langchain, we allow users to upload blood results, and further optimize their lifestyle plans given their biomarkers. Using Anyscale, we were able to turn our project into a product under the domain CureGeneie.net.
## Challenges we ran into
Database management, Google Calendar Integrations, and deploying a live product are all hard. However, with the power of MindsDB, and Anyscale we were able to solve these problems and create a valuable, live product! With the MindsDB integration, we were able to query the free space in a user's calendar and design a plan around their free time and current obligations. MindsDB Gcal integration was critical in being able to determine the best times to schedule clients' workouts and meals. Our product would not exist without the ease of MindsDB Gcal invite. 
Another challenge we faced was dealing with the variety of client inputs we accept. Luckily through the use of GPT-4 API and Langchain, we could parse PDFs effectively and update the prompt we passed into GPT-4.
## Accomplishments that we're proud of
Each of us entered this hackathon with vague notions of what we wanted to build and no solid team. However, through the tribulations of the hackathon, we were able to deploy a fully usable app that provides real value and integrates great solutions like MindsDB and Anyscale! Learning these powerful new tools will inevitably serve each of us through the AI revolution! Not only that, we formed a strong team, and made great friends along the way! 
## What we learned
During this hackathon, we delved deeper into practical applications of AI, specifically the GPT-4 model and powerful frameworks and tools like Langchain and MindsDB. We learned how to harness these tools to provide personalized diet and workout plans and in the process enhance our skills in UI design, and full-stack development. Furthermore, with the power of Anyscale, we realized the potential to build a platform capable of scaling to the demands of our product. 
## What's next for CureGenie
We’d like to open-source our platform and continue to build additional functionality. Currently, we only incorporate users' blood results if they upload them, but we’d like to incorporate other health data. Combined with all of this information, using GPT4, we could predict their worst risk factors and develop a lifestyle plan that mitigates them. This would allow clients to optimize their health, and have a plan of action added to their calendars! Not only that, but we would like to go even further, integrating with InstaCart, and customers’ local gyms, automatically purchasing their required ingredients and signing them up for the requisite workouts! 
